I have a question and it is related
to the general platform model
that there is an initial challenge in
growth, which we call the challenge
of the bite and the chicken, which
is to break that network effect, that
when you already have a lot of critical
mass benefits you because you
generate very much value, but when
you were curling at McKinsey
and you started with this minimum
viable product is very complicated,
with very few users it is
very complicated to generate value.
That is, it’s a bit the chicken of
the golden eggs, that is, the
network effects in a marketplace.
The chicken of the golden eggs
when you are up.
The key is to know how to do
it from the beginning.
That is, we call it the challenge
of the Exact.
And there you can try using
several tools to try to encourage
it instead of it in the 5
month from the beginning.
But it’s true that until you have
a minimum mass of content users
on the platform, that doesn’
t work.
This is drawn as a virtuous
circle, that the more users you
have more value when you have
already reached that critical mass
that generates an entry
barrier for others.
But when you don’t have any one, it’s very
complicated because if there are two
users on 21 buttons, you don’t generate
value for either of the two and the rest.
How did you get that
initial attraction?
From the beginning it grows very fast.
That is, if I can get that
entry barrier or that critical
mass in, I will try to
get in that month what I
need to create it.
That during that month those users
won’t have the best retention in
the best coefficient of virtuality?
Totally agree.
Do you use a specific
strategy?
See also that...
Look, they told me, for example, I was
told by José del Barrio Fundador de
la Névera Roja, he told us that they
had done what they had done is
to focus on one, that is, to win the
critical mass in concrete niches, in
concrete cities or in concrete neighborhoods,
even in concrete neighborhoods
they had done.
They give value to the rest.
In the case of the Red Nevers,
they generated value to restaurants and
customers within that neighborhood,
but had already reached the critical
mass within the neighborhood.
Yes, in our case it is to try
to have a minimum critical mass
of content, so what you try, in
principle, if you compare a little
with the similarity to what José
del Barrio said, is to create
the minimum critical mass of
few content creators.
So try to have few good content
creators, so that the day I
download the app, the first
day, I already see quality
content.
It is worth, that is, that the strategy
in this case goes by capturing
users that are very referential and
that are very generated content.
For example, Twenty did the same, or
Facebook, what it did is start with
people who were studying Harvard and
who were very aspirational for the
rest of the world.
That is how he got that traction.
So what you did is focus
on very valuable users.
and exact.
And those users, in the end, what
you generate is that you have
a platform with very good
experience and that the other
users who enter will stay,
will share more, will go up
more.
It’s what you commented, that’
s generating that wheel that’
s what we, as you said, call
the network effects.
And in our sense, in our products
you see a lot as better content,
with more users, you have more
retention, you have more engagement,
you can really measure
very well.
You can measure how metrics improve
thanks to the network effect,
right?
and totally.
And this is what it does is that, having
reached a point like that you
are now, where you are already,
that critical mass has already been
reached, the barrier to entry is
huge for those outside.
It is super complicated.
It’s much bigger, the challenge is much
bigger than you’ve faced yourself
the first day, because it’s not just
that they have to break the egg and
the chicken, but the challenge is
the initial problem, but they also
have to compete with one that’s already
implanted, that is, it’s
impossible directly.
and exact.
And that’s what makes companies
like yours, the valuations
are so much higher.
and exact.
Yes, yes, you have defined
it perfectly.
There are quite a few players
who have tried to do the same
thing we are doing and that hasn’t
worked, basically, because at the moment
you have a minimum critical mass,
it’s impossible to move that mass
to the other platform,
it’s impossible.
Who would be the first to say I am
going?
And they’ll follow everyone else, and
then when they’re here they’ll
create content.
If not, who will see
this content?
Of course, effectively, the barriers
to entry, this effect that is given
on the platforms, in social networks,
etc., in a marketplace is
given because there is all the supply
and all the demand.
For example, think of the
Idealist, which we analyzed yesterday.
But in the case of content-centric
platforms, it’s also content,
not only the millions of
people you have, but
it’s the content that’
s wrapped inside.
And for example, we were analyzing
TripAdvisor, for example, and you say,
on TripAdvisor, in the case of the
entry barrier, not just that it’s
used by millions of people, no.
The entry barrier is even greater.
For many years, these millions
of people have wrapped hundreds
of millions of opinions.
And those hundreds of millions
of opinions are a barrier that is
already infranchisable.
In your case it is similar.
Maybe not like TripAdvisor, but
all that content generated...
It has a lot of value.
Yes yes.
That is, in the end you need
to convince people that they create
the content, that they go, that
they start consuming content on another
platform, that they will know that
they won’t have any views or purchases
during the first few days.
I need to convince people
to view the content that
goes.
That is, there are really many
factors that ultimately incite
to have powerful entry barriers.
This is why we are looking to quickly
launch new markets.
Yes indeed.
I’m also looking at another similar
case of networking with entry
barriers, which is LinkedIn.
And it’s not a matter of being everybody,
but you’ve been rolling, for
years, you’ve curled the profile.
Well, I don’t, but a lot of people have
done it, right?
And then now they put you up with the
one that you start using another
professional network and gives you
a deadly lazy, because you have to start
creating your profile in another
professional network and all that content,
because I know, recognitions that
have made you other people, etc.,
that are more or less how it works.
It is an insurmountable barrier to entry.
It’s impossible, even before LinkedIn,
for example, in Germany there’s one
called Ching, and even LinkedIn
has not been able to compete
with Ching within Germany.
That is, they have really
built such barriers that the global
job network, which is LinkedIn,
has failed to penetrate
Germany.
Look at this, it is a very clear
example of what I am saying.
That is, it’s really brutal to
generate content or all that legacy
that’s there as an entry barrier,
isn’t it?
And then obviously there is the
whole issue of being top of mind
of people, etc., etc.